
Next, for at least three resistor values that span at least two orders of magnitude and the least of which is at least 100 Ω, simulate the current–voltage characteristics of an emitter-degenerated 2N3904, as shown in Fig. 3.2b. Sweep the base voltage from ground to +5 V. In your report, include a schematic of your LTspice set-up. As with the resistor in series with the diode-connected transistor that you examined in Lab 2, you should observe two qualitatively distinct regions of operation. Make a single semilog plot showing collector current versus base voltage for all of the resistor values that you used along with the collector characterisic and theoretical fit that you obtained in Experiment 1. For each resistor value, make a linear plot of collector current as a function of base voltage along with an appropriate theoretical fit. For each of these plots, are the fit parameters consistent with the resistor values and the transistor’s collector characteristics?
For each resistor, extract the incremental resistance of the base terminal, Rb, with emit- ter degeneration from the base current–voltage characteristics. Make a single log-log plot showing Rb as a function of Ib along with appropriate theoretical fits. Do the theoretical fits match the data? Also, for each resistor, extract the incremental transconductance gain of the transistor with emitter degeneration, Gm, from the collector characteristics. Make a single log-log plot showing Gm as a function of Ic, along with appropriate theoretical fits. Do the theoretical fits match the data?



The circuit that you investigated in Experiment 2 is often used as a simple voltage buffer, which is commonly called an emitter follower. In this context, the transistor’s base voltage is the circuit’s input and the transistor’s emitter voltage is its output, as shown in Fig. 3.2c. In this configuration, the emitter voltage follows the base voltage’s lead, whence its name. This circuit is also called a common-collector amplifier by those with a penchant for circuit taxonomy, because the collector terminal is at a common potential (i.e., a possible reference level shared by the input and output voltages). For one of the resistor values that you used in Experiment 2, measure the emitter follower’s output voltage as you sweep its input voltage from ground to +5V. In your report, include a schematic of your LTspice set-up. Make a plot showing the emitter follower’s voltage transfer characteristic (VTC), which is a plot of Vout as a function of Vin, along with a theoretical fit. What is the incremental voltage gain of the emitter follower? What is the difference between Vin and Vout for this circuit? What determines this voltage difference





Now, for at least three resistor values that are small integer multiples of the emitter resistor that you used in Experiment 3, simulate the VTC of the circuit shown in Fig. 3.2d. This circuit is commonly used as a simple inverting voltage amplifier, called an inverter. It is sometimes also called a common-emitter amplifier (with emitter degeneration). In this context, the base voltage again serves as the circuit’s input the collector voltage is its output. In your report, include a schematic of your LTspice set-up. Make a single plot showing all of the VTCs along with appropriate theoretical fits. You should also include the emitter- follower VTC from Experiment 3 on this plot. For each collector resistor, what is the incremental voltage gain of the amplifier? What determines this voltage gain?
